For the brief click [here](https://github.com/61c-student/fa21-proj4-Saifullahjailani) or open `Project Brief.pdf`.
# numc
### Provide answers to the following questions.
- How many hours did you spend on the following tasks?
  - Task 1 (Matrix functions in C):
  Task one was not that hard. It required basic knowledge of programming in c Lanhuage. I managed to implement this part within an hour.
  - Task 2 (Speeding up matrix operations):
  Task 2 requried knowledge of using SIMD and MIMD. To achieve the performance required for this project, I used both SIMD and MIMD simultanously with loop unrolling. It took almost 20 hours to fully implement everything and optimize its performance. 
- Was this project interesting? What was the most interesting aspect about it?
  - <b>This project was very different than any project I did before. This was my first experience using SIMD and MIMD. This project was a mix of optimization tasks. To achieve the performance goal, programmer had to use SIMD, MIMD, loop unrolling, and using avantage of the caches. I liked this project alot since, introduced me into the multithreading programming. It was nice to see immediate effects on the speed of the programm with small changes. The most exiting part of the project was that made me review past lectures and discussions</b>
- What did you learn?
  - <b>I learned how to apply my knowledge to optimize  a software. Also, I think writing notes for any programm but specially when openmp is used is a must. It was easy to get back to the same code and optimize it. Moreover, I tested alot of different hypothesis. For example I initially thought that using a chunk styled loop would run faster than #pragma omp parallel for which was completely wrong. Moreover I learned that optimization for certain doesnt worth the time and effort since the use is very neich and will not affect the overall performance of the program. The matrix powering was a probelem that was hard to optimize usin the traditional ways, therefore I opted to optimize the algorithm. I took advantage of the power roll where I used the sum to multimplication rull, using modulus and divission operators Overall the project was desighned really nice and covered almost everything in the lecture. However, am not very sure on the effectiveness of some of the function s. For example I stull dont know whyre to we ref_cnt fuction and fill functions. The direction of the questions were also confusing specially in abs_matix function </b>
- Is there anything you would change?
  - <b>I think task 1 was unnecssary at this point. Almost all of the students had a strong grasp of the programmning theqneques, and could have done task2 wihout bothering to do task1. On the other hand I found it usefull since I was not thinking of the logic of the programm rather I focused on how to optimize the function. The optimization part did not changed the function completely. I did not know how big of a differnce loop unrolling has in loop unroling. I was operating on 16 elements using SIMD and MIMD in one go. </b>
